#### Public Opinion Defined
**Elitist** societies believe the common person is too uneducated to make political decisions while **pluralistic** societies assume the citizens are competent enough to make decisions but don't have enough time to gather all the information they need to make informed decisions. **Participatory/majoritarians** believe the common citizen has enough time and compentency in order to make good politcal decisions. While the public doesn't seem to care much about politics in America, they get riled up when provoked, thus, politicians care about and pay attention to public opinion.

#### How is Public Opinion Measured?
Political scientists (PSs) and pollsters sample the country to get public opinion ad need to overcome the challenges of getting a good sample and asking unbiased questions. Samples have to be random (each person in the country has to have an equal chance of being chosen) and proportionate to the population (no over or underrepresentation). We also need unbaised and unambiguous answers to get good results. *Sampling error* tells us how reliable a poll is (how much margin of error it has). 

#### Political Socialization
PSs say political socialization is the process by which an individual aquires attitudes and beliefs about people, the country, and the government. The agents of socialization (the actual mechanism by which individuals aquire their beliefs) are family, school, churches, community, media, etc. . People's background can also infleunce their beliefs and how they differ from others; one's education, social class, race, community, and many other factors lead them to differing and unique opinions about the world. Different races and ethnicities also effect your political activeness e.g. African Americans are, on majority, liberal while Hispanics are more inactive than other races and ethnicities. When you were born also impacts your opinions based off the generation you were raised in!

#### Competing Views of Citizenship
Americans are not very informed about their political system. Only a bit more than a quarter of American's can name both senators of their state. While this is true, democratic America seems to carry on fine and this is possibly because groups act as ideal citizens while individuals do not. **Rationale ignorance** is the notion to let the people who like politics deal with politics while the rest of us use our time for the things we need or want to do. There are also some short cuts that allow the general population to act samrt even if most of us can't name what we're talking about (talking to experts or trusted and known people). 