# Lesson 9.2: Congress

### Introduction to Congress
Americans don't really like Congress but they like their own Congress-people. Things in Congress get hard because there is a favor for local issues over national issues but national issues must still be solved. 

### Structure of Congress
Congress consists of the House of Reps (HoR) and the Senate (S). Remember the speaker of the house is elected by majorirty. The president of the Senate is the Vice President of the US - this role is largely ceremonial. There are more parts of the heirarchy in the House, the "whip" is meant to keep each party voting for its own party's policies. The HoR is divided into (sub)committees that each look over an area (education, science, etc.) since 435 people can't have a substantive dicussion. The major difference between the HoR and the Senate are:
- Terms lengths
- Constituencies: Senators are suppposed to be more national in scope while reps are more localized. 
- Degree of Specialization: Senate members are more general in scope and therefore require more staff to get actual things done

### The Legislative Process
Legislation can be derived from many sources including congress members, their constituents, state legislatures, and executive agencies. Congress people need to formally introduce a bill into a committee. 

# Calls For Civility - Notes
Is it wiser to have people advocate for what they think is right or stick to a set of beliefs and actions so as to preserve the civility of the nation? Not only have citizens become more dramatic about their political beliefs, but so have elected officails. Our lack of desire to compromise and actually see other arguments might be signaling some breaks in our democratic system. Opposition however is the reason for politics, if we only ever agreed, there wouldn't be any fodder for political campaigns or officials. The source of these political controversies stem from issues that people either disagree on or don't know what position to take. Political channels are meant for avoiding drastic and violent circumstances stemming from disagreements, but when those political channels are founded on the fact that there are disagreements and that people won't always be nice means that there will probably be some incivility. A way to draw attention to inequities can be through "rude" seeming actions which implies that sometimes political mechanims are a way for keeping people under control. Politness is said to be a mechanism for people who disagree to continue being productive and in a relationship since they might leave otherwise. Rude behavior in politics can be a way of causing gridlock or as a way to undermine other political opponnets. Those who believe deliberation between people is esential for democracy also believe that politness/civility is integral for making progress. Rudeness can be a way to just get policies into the world or as a way to block political opponents. Especially during elections, political figures can benefit from being rude and picking sides to solidify their constituents than to find middle ground where things can still be swayed which can also be a signal as to how important the citizens believe a specific issue to be. While incivility might be a means to ,refresh democracy ,overcome tyrannical figures, and have voters turnout it can also get out of control to the point where it becomes a threat to democracy. 