People revere the constitution. Made in 1787. American colonists enjoyed new privledges of owning private land, freedom and speech and press, as well as other things (48-49). Colonists didn't want to get taxed by a far away nation that had no rep. Sons and Daughters of Liberty were showing resistance against Britain and ther taxes as well as products. After Boston Tea Party, Britain was playing naughty so the colonies banded together for their first continental meeting (50). Liberty was wanted but war was a high price to pay so we needed to define our reasons for wanting Liberty (Dec. of Independence -- 51). The DoI basically listed that the governed have the right to appoint their rulers for certain purposes (and can abolish them if they don't fulfill their purpose) and that the people have the right to rebel against their current government and make a new one (52-53). A **republic** (at the time) was a form of government where there is no monarch and the governed are represented with consent (54). In a **confederation** the central government is weak and can only *coordinate* actions between states (55). Each state, no matter how small, had a single and equal vote in the congress at the time. The articles failed since the central gov couldn't tax, no direct individual to lead the government, national gov couldn't regulate foreign or intersatate commerce, and the articles couldn't be amended without unanimity (55). Instead of ammending the confederation it was decided to create an entirely new constitution (57). The **Virginia Plan** advocated for a new type of gov where the national gov had more power (57). The New Jersey Plan wanted equal rep for each state regardless of size unlike the virginia plan (58). The **Great Compromise** was put in place to settle the difference between the VP and NJP; the **house of reps** would have a proportional amount of reps from each state, while the **senate** would have the same amount of senators from each state. For choosing the president, small states didn't want large states to just control the outcome of the elections so a compromise was made i.e. the **electoral colleges**. Each state gets the same amount of electoral choosers as they have HoR reps in Congress (59). **Republicanism** is where power resides in the people and is exercised by the elected powers. **Federalism** is where there is a national gov with some authority and state govs with their own authority. **Seperation of powers** means that one part of the gov makes laws, another part enforcing them, and another part interpreting them. **Checks and balances** means that the seperate powers have to coordinate for anything to really happen. 

### Articles of the Constitution
##### Legislative Article
Enumerates what powers congress has in making laws.
##### Executive Article
Outlines the power of president to enforce laws and how to elect one. 
##### Judicial Article
Power to nullify government acts if in contention with the constitution


### Framers' Motives

##### Slavery
Southern states wanted slaves to counted as part of their population so they had more power in congress. Slaves were represented as 3/5ths of a human. 

### Selling the Constitution
People for the a strong national gov were called **federalists** while those opposed to it were called **antifederalists**. Newspaper was the major medium by which the public was informed about these political issues. Since the feds and antifeds were arguing with each other a lot, they came to a compromise, the **bill of rights**, since the feds believed the seperation of powers would hold each on in check, while the antifeds believed there should be more checks and balances (feds thought this would make any national task virtually impossible). The BoR are the first 10 amendments to the constitution. The Formal Amendment Process outlines that 2/3rds of the HoR or senate is needed to propose a new amendment and that 3/4ths of the state legislators need to agree on it for it to be ratified. 