# Lesson 13.2 - Civil Rights

### The Struggle for Civil Rights
There are different meanings to the word "equality." Americans believe more so in equality of opportunity than of equality of outcome. 

### Civil War Amendments
The 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments gave African Americas the right to vote *de jure* (by law) in 1870, but it wasn't until 1970 that African Americans could vote *de facto* (in reality). The reason for this is because laws only have meaning if they are enforced. Rights can be disregarded through screenings or certain tests that are aimed at people, preventing them from exercising their rights, such as how voting was prevented for African Americans through poll taxes, literacy tests, and other hurdles.

The origianl constitution (document + bill of rights) only protected the citizen from the federal government - not from any local or state sherrifs (or things of that nature). It wasn't until the 14th amendment that the constitution required states to protect civil liberties; the federal government had already promised equal protection of rights but didn't require the states to do so as well. Beginning in 1897, the SC began nationalizing rights in the BoR. Because some of the federal laws or parts of the constitution didn't apply to the states, there were double standards between how federal law enforcement and local law enforcement dealt with litigation. 

### The Civil Rights Movement
Movements require ordinary citizens and political activists to work together in large numbers using unconventional political participation since conventioal participation might be closed or ineffectual. 

### De Jure vs De Facto Discrimination
The civil rights movement sought to adress both de jure and de facto discrimination. Discrimination de jure means laws apply differently to people because of some characteristic that they might have such as race, gender, etc. De facto discrimination is different from de jure because discrimination can be matter of fact even if there is no law that shows discrimination. De facto discrimination can be caused by past de jure discrimination, customs, socio economic status, tradition, or other reasons and is much harder to eliminate since it isn't legislated. 

# Discussion Forum - Documentary: The House We Live In
Race isn't a biological phenomenon. There are no genetic or biological markings that make up "race," however, race is given meaning when we ascribe meanings to the differences we see between people. Race is a social construct because it only exists when we give social meaning to our differences (4:00). Between 1880 and 1920, the vast majority of immigrants were from Eastern and Southern Europe (5:15). Immigrants usually worked the hardest, poorest, and most dangerous jobs along with the other "inferior races" such as Blacks, Mexicans, and Chinese (5:45). People were looked at more in terms of race starting in the 1910's (7:40). As more immigrants came into America and worked and lived in the slums, research institutions pinned this on them because of the innate racial characteristcs coming to fruition (9:00). The term "Melting Pot" comes from a play that proposes immigrants to assimilate to being white americans (11:00). At first, the SC only let free wite people naturalize, and only later did they let people of African Descent do so as well (12:30). The courts had to define whoe was black and who was white - different states defined this differently (any ancestry, 1/8th, 1/16th - 13:30). Not being a citizen because of naturalization barred people from certain activities such as being able to own or lease land (15:30). In the 1930's, many GI's came home and needed housing - this turned into a situation that racialized housing (26:00 - 27:30). The housing scheme went from 50% down to 10-20% down and lower mortgage rates over a longer period of time but the federal programs "warned" that hvaing non-white famnilies in the establishment would drive down value. Mortgages would mostly only be approved to white communities since they had a higher rating given by some instituttion. The more integrated (more non whites) a community was, the lower its rating went (redlining). After racial wording was removed from federal housing programs (FHA), real estate marketers preyed on whites' fears of an integrated community making them sell their houses for below market price and then selling them to non whites at inflated prices (41:00). The de facto inequality between races comes from a matter of assests - how much your house, car, bank account, savings are worth depended on what community you were a part of and these discrepancies only became more apparent from generation to generation. 